# CSCI-460-Assignments
This is a repository containing all of my programming projects from CSCI 460 (Operating Systems). Project descriptions can be found below.

Assignment 1:

Project Goal:
The goal of the assignment is to create a memory management simulator that implements a simple paging scheme. Upon startup, the program takes two mandatory command line arguments (memory size, page size) and one optional command line argument (job requests file). If no job requests file is given, the user can dynamically input requests such as putting a new process into main memory, suspending a process, resuming a suspended process, etc. If a job requests file is given, the program will execute all requests in the file, and then allow dynamic requests from the user.

What is Simple Paging?:
Simple paging is a memory management strategy in which processes are split into equal-sized partitions called "pages", and main memory is split into partitions of the same size call "frames". Each process has a structure known as a page table associated with it that maps each of its pages to the frame it resides in in memory. The benefit of maintaining page tables is that pages of a process need not be contiguous in main memory for the process to function properly. The main downside of paging is that the page size may not be a factor of the process size, which means that the final page of a partiuclar process may contain unused space. Thus, certain frames in memory will be unutilized. This is known as internal fragmentation. It is called "simple" paging because there is no virtual memory. This means that all pages of a process must be in main memory for it to execute.

How to Use the Simulator:
To run the program, run it from the command line with the following form: program name, memory size (in bytes), page size (in bytes), file name (optional). Note that the page size must be a factor of the memory size in this simulator. There are two example job request files "input_requests_1.txt" and "input_requests_2.txt" in this repo that can be run. If you create your own job requests file, make sure it has a header line because the first line is skipped in the program. It also must have the file extension .txt in order to work. Each line of the file should contain two arguments "Job ID" and "Command" separated by whitespace. For the "Job ID" argument, you may enter three potential options: Job Identifier, print, exit. Job Identifier is the name of a process that you either want to put into the memory system or manipulate within the memory system (needs to be an integer). If choose print for the "Job ID" argument, it will print the current state of memory, this includes main memory and each process and its associated internal fragmentation and page table. If you choose exit, the program will terminate. For the "Command" argument, there are four options, size of process (some positive integer), 0, -1, -2. If you enter a positive integer for the "Command" argument, that will set the size of the process you entered in the "Job ID" field in bytes. Note that the size of a process may not be changed while it is in the memory system, it must be removed and then reintroduced to the system. If you enter 0 for the "Command" argument, it will remove the process you entered in the "Job ID" field from the memory system regardless of whether it is in main memory or secondary memory. If you enter -1, it will suspend the process you entered in the "Job ID" field (put it into secondary memory). If you enter -2, it will resume the process you entered in the "Job ID" field (put it back into main memory). If you get up to any funny business like entering a negative number less than -2, suspending an already suspended process, or resuming a process that's already in main memory, it won't let you >:). After the file is finished running OR if you don't enter a file as a command line argument, you can put in dynamic requests of the same form ("Job ID" and "Command" separated by whitespace). There is some other behavior worth mentioning. 1) The simulator will not allow you to enter a process larger than main memory. 2) If you enter a process but there are not enough free frames for your process, the simulator will automatically suspend the oldest process(es) in main memory to make room for the new process (FIFO). 3) The same behavior occurs if you try to resume a suspended process but there aren't enough free frames.

Assignment 2: To Be Completed

Assignment 3: To Be Completed
